[mikrotik] Mikrotik RouterOS Binding - Initial contribution (#10014)
openhab/openhab-addons: bundles/org.openhab.binding.mikrotik/README.md

* <kbd>String</kbd> `comment` _(read-only)_ - User-defined comment
* <kbd>Switch</kbd> `connected` _(read-only)_ - Reflects connected or disconnected state
* <kbd>Switch</kbd> `continuous` _(read-only)_ - Connection is considered long-running
* <kbd>String</kbd> `ssid` _(read-only)_ - Wireless Network (SSID) the wireless client is connected to
* <kbd>String</kbd> `interface` _(read-only)_ - Network interface name
* <kbd>Number</kbd> `signal` _(read-only)_ - Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) of the wireless client
* <kbd>String</kbd> `uptime` _(read-only)_ - Duration while thing is up
* <kbd>DateTime</kbd> `upSince` _(read-only)_ - Time when thing got up
* <kbd>DateTime</kbd> `lastSeen` _(read-only)_ - Time of when the client was last seen connected
* <kbd>Number</kbd> `txRate` _(read-only)_ - Rate of data transmission in megabits per second
* <kbd>Number</kbd> `rxRate` _(read-only)_ - Rate of data receiving in megabits per second
* <kbd>Number</kbd> `txPacketRate` _(read-only)_ - Rate of data transmission in packets per second
* <kbd>Number</kbd> `rxPacketRate` _(read-only)_ - Rate of data receiving in packets per second

> * <kbd>Number</kbd> `txBytes` _(read-only)_ - Amount of bytes transmitted

Reviewer: Number:DataAmount and not just Number if the channel uses UOM. BTW if you have created the items as Number, you need to delete and recreate them as Number:DataAmount to see the benefits of the built in graphing.

Author: @Skinah Does same applies to `Number:Dimensionless`? Also should percentage be declared as that UOM type?

Reviewer: I can see a few possible ways those questions could be interrupted. Also please note I am not an expert in this and am still learning so best to ask some questions in the forum. In OH3 you can create an item that is Number:Dimensionless and also a Number so they are separate.

https://community.openhab.org/t/discussion-about-units-of-measurement/47183/5

Author: Yeah, let's keep percentage as `Dimensionless` then. Same mentioned in the forum thread you've specified above.

* <kbd>String</kbd> `autoNegotiation` _(read-only)_ - Ethernet auto-negotiation status

Populated only for `cap` interfaces:
* <kbd>Number</kbd> `registeredClients` _(read-only)_ - Amount of clients registered to WiFi interface
* <kbd>Number</kbd> `authorizedClients` _(read-only)_ - Amount of clients authorized by WiFi interface
* <kbd>String</kbd> `uptime` _(read-only)_ - Duration while thing is up
* <kbd>DateTime</kbd> `upSince` _(read-only)_ - Time when thing got up

## Text Configuration Example

**Change config options accordingly.**

_things/mikrotik.things_

```
Bridge mikrotik:routeros:rb1 "My RouterBoard" [ host="192.168.0.1", port=8728, login="openhab", password="thatsasecret", refresh=10 ] {
	Thing interface eth1 "Eth1" [ name="ether1" ]
	Thing interface eth2 "Eth2" [ name="ether2-wan1" ]
	Thing interface cap1 "Cap1" [ name="cap5" ]
	Thing interface ppp1 "PPPoE1" [ name="isp-pppoe" ]
	Thing interface tun1 "L2TPSrv1" [ name="l2tp-parents" ]
	Thing wifiRegistration wifi1 "Phone1" [ mac="F4:60:E2:C5:47:94", considerContinuous=60 ]
	Thing wifiRegistration wifi2 "Tablet2" [ mac="18:1D:EA:A5:A2:9E" ]
}
```

_items/mikrotik.items_

```
Group gRB1 "RB3011 System"

> Number   My_RB_3011_Free_Space     "Free space"     (gRB1) {channel="mikrotik:routeros:rb1:freeSpace"}

Reviewer: I'm a little rusty on textual config but is it meant to be Number:DataAmount and not just Number now that the channels are using UOM?

Author: Right, I'll update readme as well.

# Mikrotik RouterOS Binding

This binding integrates [Mikrotik](https://mikrotik.com/) [RouterOS](https://help.mikrotik.com/docs/display/ROS/RouterOS)
[devices](https://mikrotik.com/products) allowing monitoring of system resources, network interfaces and WiFi clients.

## Supported Things

* `routeros` - An instance of the RouterOS device connection
* `interface` - A network interface inside RouterOS device
* `wifiRegistration` - Any wireless client connected to a RouterOS wireless network (regular or CAPsMAN-managed)

## Discovery

Discovery is currently not supported, but may be implemented in future versions.

## Binding Configuration

> The binding has no configuration options, all configuration is done at the Bridge and Thing levels.

Reviewer 2: Then, you could remove this section.

## Bridge Configuration

To use this binding you need at least one RouterOS-powered device (Bridge) accessible to the host running

> OpenHAB via network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
openHAB via network.
```
Starts with lowercase o.

> Make sure your RouterOS have API enabled by visiting [<kbd>IP -> Services</kbd>](https://wiki.mikrotik.com/wiki/Manual:IP/Services) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure your RouterOS has the API enabled by visiting [<kbd>IP -> Services</kbd>](https://wiki.mikrotik.com/wiki/Manual:IP/Services) 
```

configuration section in 

> [WinBox](https://wiki.mikrotik.com/wiki/Manual:Winbox). Note the API port number as you'll need it below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[WinBox](https://wiki.mikrotik.com/wiki/Manual:Winbox).
Take note of the API port number as you'll need it below.
```
Each sentence should be on its own new line.

[SSL API connection](https://wiki.mikrotik.com/wiki/Manual:API-SSL) is not yet supported by this binding.

> To connect to RouterOS API you need to provide user credantials to the bridge config. You may use your current 
> credentials you use to manage device, but it is highly recommended to **create a read-only RouterOS user** since
> this binding only reads data from the device. To do so, proceed to <kbd>System -> Users</kbd> configuration section
> and add a user to the `read` group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect to the RouterOS API, you will need to provide user credentials for the bridge thing. 
You may use your current credentials that you use to manage your devices, but it is highly recommended to **create a read-only RouterOS user** since this binding only need to read data from the device.
To do this, proceed to <kbd>System -> Users</kbd> configuration section and add a user to the `read` group.
```

New line for each sentence.

> Thing type: `routeros`

The RouterOS Bridge configuration parameters are:

* `host` _(required text)_ [Default: `192.168.88.1`] - Hostname or IP address of the RouterOS device
* `port` _(optional integer)_ [Default: `8729`] - API Port number of the RouterOS device
* `login` _(required text)_ [Default: `admin`] - The user login to access the the RouterOS device
* `password` _(required text)_ - The user password to access the RouterOS device

> * `refresh` _(optional integer)_ [Default: `10`] - The refresh interval in seconds to poll the RouterOS device

Reviewer 2: You could make this a table to be consistent with the other bindings.

Author: Is there a tool to build Markdown table out of XML? That's how this description is generated - via a script.

Reviewer 2: Yes, @cpmeister wrote a Java class for generating the markdown table from the XML files. But I'm afraid it's burried in some old PR.

Author: Can we leave it like that for now?
I remember some bindings has parameter descriptions as lists, so I guess that's acceptable. Anyway, I'd be happy to reformat with tables once the tool will be available, or when I'll make my own (I was thinking about making browser JS app one day).

Reviewer 2: There are several old addons which don't use tables. New addond should have tables to achieve consistentency across the manifold addon readmes. A browser-based converter would be pretty cool!

> **All things provided by this binding requires a working bridge to be set up.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**All things provided by this binding require a working bridge to be set up.**
```

> 

Reviewer: Two empty lines in a row, I'm sure this is one of the auto checks done. Please compile and then look inside your TARGET folder where you will find a code analasis folder. In that folder is a report of things to address. Please go through that and any warnings that show up when you compile if waiting for more review comments.

Author: This is what it shows currently
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/81665/111929682-be3d3100-8abf-11eb-99fa-5e0f900796d0.png)

@Skinah please confirm I should fix all those 15 markdown issues.

Reviewer: Yes please fix.

### Bridge Channels
* <kbd>Number:DataAmount</kbd> `freeSpace` _(read-only)_ - Amount of free storage left on device in bytes
* <kbd>Number:DataAmount</kbd> `totalSpace` _(read-only)_ - Amount of total storage available on device in bytes
* <kbd>Number:Dimensionless</kbd> `usedSpace` _(read-only)_ - Percentage of used device storage space
* <kbd>Number:DataAmount</kbd> `freeMemory` _(read-only)_ - Amount of free memory left on device in bytes
* <kbd>Number:DataAmount</kbd> `totalMemory` _(read-only)_ - Amount of total memory available on device in bytes
* <kbd>Number:Dimensionless</kbd> `usedMemory` _(read-only)_ - Percentage of used device memory
* <kbd>Number:Dimensionless</kbd> `cpuLoad` _(read-only)_ - CPU load percentage

> * <kbd>String</kbd> `uptime` _(read-only)_ - For how long the device is working

Reviewer 2: You could make this `Number:Time`. Same for WiFi and interface.

Author: `uptime` is a raw string like `1y3w4d5h6m7s11ms` coming from the router. Will it work if I'll change the data type to `Number::Time` ?
This string gets converted to normal `DateTime` channel (named `upSince`) later on.

Reviewer 2: If this information is already translated into `DateTime` in another Channel, I'd remove this "raw" Channel.

Author: Done

> * <kbd>DateTime</kbd> `upSince` _(read-only)_ - Since when the device is working

Reviewer: Are both of these needed? Also how often does the upTime change, is it every second?

Author: They are, as `uptime` is the raw _string_ representing the duration
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/81665/111929049-fe9baf80-8abd-11eb-9d07-9e51712915c9.png)

while `upSince` is the _DateTime_ value which is calculated as _now - uptime`
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/81665/111929137-30ad1180-8abe-11eb-8691-eaf7bd4dd761.png)

Value is refreshed each time the binding gets the new data (_Refresh interval_ config setting).

## WiFi Client Thing Configuration

> Thing type: `wifiRegistration`

Represents a wireless client connected to a RouterOS wireless network (direct or CAPsMAN-managed).

The WiFi client thing configuration parameters are:

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| mac | text | Yes |  | WiFi client MAC address |
| ssid | text | No |  | Constraining SSID for the WiFi client (optional). If client will connect to another SSID, this thing will stay offline until client reconnects to specified SSID. |
| considerContinuous | integer | No | 180 | The interval in seconds to treat the client as connected permanently |

### WiFi client Thing Channels

| Channel | Type | Description | Comment |
|---|---|---|---|
| macAddress | String | MAC address of the client or interface |  |
| comment | String | User-defined comment |  |
| connected | Switch | Reflects connected or disconnected state |  |
| continuous | Switch | Connection is considered long-running |  |
| ssid | String | Wireless Network (SSID) the wireless client is connected to |  |
| interface | String | Network interface name |  |

> | signal |  |  |  |

Reviewer 2: Can you fill this?

Author: Done
